---
title: EU GDPR, Nodes and the industry
date: 2016-10-11 12:42:00
tags: data,law,security,eu,2017
authorId: olha
categories:
- Security
---

This blog post will give you an insight of the new European Union General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) (by the European Parliament & Council), and how this will impact Nodes and the digital and mobile industry. 

## What to know about the new data protection law

Will come into force **25 May 2018**

1. **Expansions on the personal data pool**, this will now include IP addresses, cookies and other generic data that have or are assigned to the user
2. **Increased fines**, penalties will start at €10m or 2% of the gross revenue and all the way up to €20m or 4% of gross revenue
3. **Coverage of outside EU contries** if data is being transfered or stored within the EU
4. **Profiling and targeting of big data**, will likely require explit consent from each user
5. **Data Protection Officeers**, both controllers and proccessers must assign a designated PDO
6. **When breaches happens** then it should be notified to the DPO wihtin 72 hours
7. **Processing of Personal data**, may require a consent mechanisms for collection and processing data
8. **What defines a breach?** *"a breach of security leading to the accidental or unlawful destrcution, loss, alteration, unauthrorised disclosure of, or access to, personal data transmitted, stored or otherwise processed"*

## How will this impact corporations and service providers

###Corportaions 
Corporations will have to be prepared to be more aware of who are handeling their data. If corporations have public API or other services then the requester will still be the data controller. The challenge will be that the corporation now have opened a door to their systems where only traffic suppose to go one way. This essentially means that they need to make sure that their security is up to date and not just rely on old none updated systems. This also means that we proberly will see higher security screening before corporations allows third parties to request and amend data on their server.

Digital/Mobile agencies already see quite a challenge of getting a hold of corporations API and services as it stands today. Adding this layer on top will not make the challenge easier. 

###Service providers

We had the pleasure to interview JudoPays "xxxx" "xxxx" and asked him two questions about how service providers such as Judo would react.

**1. What does Judo do to keep their stack and protocols ready for GDPR?**

"waiting for answer"

**2. Does Judo see any challenges about the new regulations from a service providers point of view?**

"waiting for answer"

## Nodes and GDPR?

Nodes uses Awazon Web Services (AWS) as our hosting solution. This means that Nodes are considered Data Controllers (in the sense of Directive 95/46/EC). AWS is the Data Controllers of the phsyical data storage where Nodes will be Data Controllers on an Application layer. This means that if someone walks in to Amazons storage and steal a server or harddrive then Amazon will be fined. Nodes will be responsible for making sure new security patches are layed out around the frameworks and stack that we are using. Nodes currently uses [Lavarel 5.3](https://laravel.com/) as our server framework of choise. Lavarel frequently updates their frameworks, Nodes are always on forefront of these updates and uses part of our clients maintanince package (in consent with them) to make sure all patches and frameworks are up to date.

Nodes have an operations team based in our Copenhagen office that daily monitorises our stack and hosting.  

Read more on AWS EU Data Protection [here](https://aws.amazon.com/compliance/eu-data-protection/), for deeper insigths also read thier whitepaper [here](https://d0.awsstatic.com/whitepapers/compliance/AWS_EU_Data_Protection_Whitepaper.pdf)

For any more information please don't hesitate to contact us [Nodes Agency](https://www.nodesagency.com/kontakt/)