---
title: Bugsnag for Vapor 3
date: 2019-01-31 10:00:00
tags: [server,bugsnag,report,reporting,release]
authorIds: 
- brto
categories:
- Vapor
---

At Nodes we have been working hard on a Vapor 3 provider for [Bugsnag](https://www.bugsnag.com). Bugsnag is a reporting tool that we use extensively to help catch and fix bugs.

In the new version of the library, we've been able to remove a lot of dead code, simplify the API and add support for breadcrumbs.

## Migration to Vapor 3

The migration from Vapor 2 to Vapor 3 was a relatively easy one for Bugsnag. The major changes were the use of `Codable` and the introduction of `Future`s.

One of the double-edged-swords of Vapor 3 is the asynchronous design. The asynchronous nature of the framework makes stack traces virtually useless. Sadly, we had to remove support for [Stack](https://github.com/nodes-vapor/stack) and stack traces.

Registration has seen an update as well. It now uses the `Service` system.

```swift
let reporter = BugsnagReporter(
    apiKey: "<YOUR BUGSNAG API KEY>",
    releaseStage: environment.name,
    shouldReport: environment.name != "local"
    debug: false
)
```

With a newly simplified API, we introduced support for severities.
```swift
reporter.info(...)
reporter.warning(...)
reporter.error(...)
 ```
 
 After the migration to Vapor 3, we updated the Bugsnag payload version from 2 to 4. This allows us to support newer features as well as silence warnings about deprecated APIs.
 
## Breadcrumbs
After many feature requests, we have now integrated breadcrumbs into the latest version. Breadcrumb is a feature that helps ease the debugging process by enabling a user to attach data to the life-cycle of a request. To drop a breadcrumb just use the convenience function on `Request`.

```swift
 req.breadcrumb(
     name: "Something happened!",
     type: .manual,
     metadata: ["foo": "bar"]
 )
```

If you are curious about Bugsnag and would like to know more or try it out, be sure to checkout the [repo on Github](https://github.com/nodes-vapor/bugsnag).
